- [Instructor] The Decorator Pattern
is one of those patterns of composition
that you either get or you don't
but once you get it, its power becomes so great
that you use it often within your development techniques.
Within the Spring framework,
decorators are used all over the place.
The frameworks uses decorators
to do much of its operations.
Injecting your decorated objects,
however, is difficult in Spring
because of how bean references work
specifically around shared interfaces.
In order for you to use the decorators for your beans,
you have to use Qualifier annotations
which then makes your code less about IOC
and more about you controlling the injection
throughout your application.
Now, the pattern and the way that it works in a nutshell
is pretty straightforward.
You add responsibilities to an object dynamically
at runtime and you do so through composition
instead of inheritance.
Inherited base classes compose new behavior
and responsibility by becoming additive
or so-called decorated.
And this pattern allows an object
to be open for extension
while closed for modification
while still adding responsibilities
and this is why a lot of people like this
is because of the open/close principle
and the way that it works with adding new behavior
to an existing base class.
So, why might we use this pattern?
First and foremost,
it's about composition over inheritance
which the gang of four
were very into the use of composition
and most object-oriented developers
once they learn composition,
favor it over inheritance
because of the object ref structure.
Now, you can do this pattern
to add behavior to your code without modifying it
which supports non-breaking changes.
If you have to modify a class
that has been around for some time
in order to add behavior to it,
you may risk breaking other uses
of that object in your code
but by using decorators, you can add behavior
without modifying that code.
This can also be used to remove behavior
through the use of encapsulation via decoration,
so when you decorate your object,
you can actually change the behavior
by being additive
or by removing that behavior,
again through this concept of encapsulation
and decorating the objects.
So, how will we go about creating a decorator?
So, first and foremost we need to start
with a base abstract class.
Then we're going to build another abstract class
that extends the base class
and this becomes our decorator abstract.
Now we will build decorators
that extend the decorator abstract class,
so at this point we have two layers of extension,
so we're still extending the base class
but we're doing so through the decorator.
Then finally, the decorators will maintain an instance
of the base abstract class
using constructor injection,
so even though extend it,
they're also going to store an instance of it
and treat it as a separate object
within the decorator object itself
and now let's jump in and take a look
at how that actually works in code.